

[Letter from Young John Allen to Mollie houston, March 24, 1857]

                
                    
                        Oxford Geo.
                        March 24th 1857
                    
                    My Dearest "Mary"--
                
                I fondly anticipated a letter from you this morning, but as none came, I have thought, perhaps, that you were expecting one from me too, in reply to your last, before you would write.-- I do not Dearest, write you these lines because of any anxiety or impatience but to assure you that I have not times to reply to your last, but will anxiously await the answer to my last, when if I have not time I will take time to reply.--



                I have some fun items of suggestion and observation, had I time to sum up and write them which might be of some interest, now, but I forebear in this brief communication and hold in reserve for the next--.
                I have written two letters to Mellie and on last week received one from her.
                Mollie, I was very glad when I received it, it hasdone me good; I intend answering it soon, perhaps this evening. You must write and encourage her often My Dearest, her heart and soul seemed fired up, too, for still higher attainments in a dimlife. Oh! may the Lord comfort his children and speed on the happy day of the fulness of his love and the joy of his perfection in their hearts, (thy heart and soul and hers, my Dearest). Mellie stated that she had not heard from you in two weeks and that she was very uneasy &c.
                I must now close this letter by asking youDo you know Miss Kendall?" " " F. Williamson?" " " Mollie Gonder?Has Miss Rylander yet returned?&TC
                Now My Dearest, I shall expect a letter, a longletter from you soon.-- I am affraidI write too long, too much in my letters, not too much of ideas I do not mean but ofthat I scribble down too much little in much- instead of the other better plan of "Multum in parvo" &C.--
                
                    My Dearest, Yours Affectionately & Yours Only
                    Young J Allen
                
            
            
                


                
                    Mar. 24 1857
                
                
                Miss Mollie HoustonW. F. CollegeMaconGeorgia
                Care ofPrest. Smith



            
        