
                Letter from Young John Allen to Mollie Houston, March 5, 1857
                
                    
                        E. C. Oxford Geo.
                        March 5th 1857
                    
                    My Dear Mollie
                
                Last night, Ibegan a response to your letter and thought then, that perhaps I might be able to write you without much trouble or delay, but I could not finish last night and it so happens now that circumstances over which I can exercise no control, which too were unexpected by me at that time, forbid that I should conclude my letter now, if indeed I be able to do it under a week still in advance. I do exceedingly regret it both on your account as well as mine. I regret that I am compelled to hold you in such an unpleasant suspense so long and I regret it on my account because I am debarred the privilege of communing with My Dearest One the very Idol of my being and the "life of all my (sweetest) delights." But I must yield in cheerful obedience to the "powers that be"; and to warn you against the anxieties which my delay might cause in your mind, whe if ignorant of the true cause, I send you this hurried line-- to hoping that you will pardon (me) and grant me a "week's grace". I have a few items of news, which by the by, is a rare thing with me, don't you think? that I will give you in addition to what I promised, I had in reserve for the next communication. My Dearest, you will receive this perhaps tomorrow (ThursdayFriday) and as you failed to answer a few questions in my last, I would be more than glad, yes happy, that you would spend a few minutes with me on Saturday morning and write me a short or long letter as your heart or feelings might dictate.-- Please now Dearest, do write me a few lines any how. You know how welcome they will be. I will reply just as soon as possible, yes if it were this very evening.
                Yes Mollie, I know Mr. Hightower of the Sen. Class— and by the by he is acquainted with a Miss Kendall of your Sen. Class, perhaps more intimately than I with him.
                I find out a secret now and then Mollie. Several of our boys have their hearts centered there. Miss Rylander's SweetHe-- is one of my particular friends so is the Cousin of Miss Lundy &c.
                I reserve the balance for the anticipated time when I can fully express myself-- on all these points.--
                You will please My Dearest, Remember me often, and know that at morn and at
                    noon and night I never fail to remember Thee at the Mercy Seat and every hour in
                    the day besides. Thine in faithful devotion and love forever,
                    Young J. Allen
            
            



                
                    March 5 1857
                
                
                Miss Mollie HoustonW. F. CollegeMaconGeorgia
                Care of Prest. Smith



            
        