
                Letter from Young John Allen to Mollie Houston, July 18, 1857
                
                    
                        E. C. Oxford Geo.
                        July 18 1857
                    
                    My own Dearest Mary,
                
                I never received your letter till this morning, but Oh! how glad I was to get it, you have no conception. But I can't dwell now upon emotion. I heard from Bob Freeman this morning also, and he stated that you had arrived safe "at home again." I dare very nearly going up to Atlanta to meet you and spend the night with you there and get you to come down with me if you would or if not, to stay with you there as long as I could anyhow.



                Mollie I never wanted to see you so much in all my life before. I can't account for it unless it be because since I have had nothing to employ my mind with so long. I thought of you only and constantly. Well that is the truth. I've had nothing to do since Monday night-- but I haste on.
                I've got something to do now, else I would write you a long and full letter almost as full as my heart feels. Another Young Man and myself were called on the other day to fill our Circuit rider's appointments, three in number including both Saturday and Sunday. So you see I have something else now to engage my mind. We have to leave soon after breakfast and I am in great haste to get this done before breakfast. I was up and preparing to leave when your letter came to hand, so you must pardon this great haste. The bell is ringing now I finish after I return to my room.--
                Well, Mollie I shall miss our Commencement Sermon, as I don't expect to return till late sabbath evening, but it is better to be doing good than lying idle is'nt, Dearest?
                I am glad to hear that Dear Miss Sallie is expected to be here, and for your sake too Dearest. I will endeavor to do what you enjoin and see that she is well cared for and attended to.Mr. I.F.Montgomery & Lady are expected today. Miss GingerCox too. Oh! that you come with her.
                Now Mollie I must stop, and I know you will pardon this badly written and short letter under the circumstances.
                You must make haste and get through all your visiting before I get home, for I want to be with you then all the time nearly, though I would not monopolise.
                I want to be with you as much as I can this time Dearest, for after this vacation I don't expect to be with you much till we meet on the next summer to part no more. I shall be down either on Wednesday night or the next morning.
                The buggy has come and I must go.
                
                    Now Dearest Beloved Mollie- Goodbye- till then.--
                    Young J. Allen
                
                   