
            
      [Letter from Geo H. Bell to Young John Allen, February 3, 1896]

     Oxford Ga
        Feb 3rd 96

    My dear Doctor,

As Miss Haygood leaves Atlanta next Saturday for China, I will write you a line and send it by her. We are sorry that she has to leave us, for she had been a wonderful instrument wherever she went in the awakening of the great missionary movement in China. Surely she had made good use of her time during her short stay in the United States. The churches where she spoke were not only instructed as well as benefited, but are brought to see the naked facts, until they have to respond "we will either go or send." Her stay was a blessing to women, to our church, and to the great interest to which we all have a part. May God bless her future work!
Bishop Haygood's funeral was a happy one. I don't think I have ever attended one like that before. Instead of desperate mourning, there were tears of joy. Instead of gloomy, there were brightness of sunshine. Beautiful flowers of all designs -- given by different parties from Rome, Atlanta and Augusta -- were another attractions which make the occasion most impressive. Bishop Duncan preached a common sense and practical sermon on that occasion. He did not begin with any text but concluded by saying that 'my text is "Well done, thou good and faithful servant".' The procession was a very long one. The students, faculties, citizens, Covington folks, preachers from Atlanta, Augusta and other parts of Ga and a large crowd of colored people were in the procession. I don't think the Bishop's death has caused more loss anywhere than our little village. We missed him. But our loss is his gain. So God moves in a mysterious way.

I am doing splendidly at college. As you know this is my Junior year, it will not be long before I get through. I am not anxious to get through rather than to get in my regular work. I am even getting along in mathematics better than I have been doing. Last time I made 9 in Surveying and Mechanics. I am very well satisfied 5. with them. I have been thinking of joining the N. Ga. Conf. and take a year conf. course with my Senior course. What do you think of that? Dr. Candler advised me to do that. I don't suppose it will be too much work for me. There are about four or five classmates of mine that are going to join our Conference this year.


Col. Bob Hardiman has resigned his office as State treasurer and very likely will run for Governor's office at the next election. I am afraid he is too old for that office.
  

It is rather late tonight and I will get up one more lesson before going to bed, so will conclude. Good night. Give my love to your family and yourself. Hoping to hear from you soon.
            
I remain
Yours Afftly
Geo H. Bell
