

            [Letter from Mary Houston to Young John Allen, October 23, 1856]
Grantville, Georgia , Oct. 23rd 1856.

    My Dear Young

            Your letter was, if possible, received with more than usual warmth for I was not a little anxious to hear from you notwithstanding I of course knew the cause of your delay-- And you were right in presuming I would pardon you, for how could I ever do otherwise when you always have a very good excuse and are ever generous to pardon me.
            I am not going to write you but a very few lines this time, for I am a little indisposed to nighttonight--, for a rare thing, and I have been cautioned several times already by Miss Mellie against exposing myself. I am happy, very happy to know that you will cooperate with me to secure that holy priseprize which can but make us truly blest, and ever happy even in this world amidst the severest afflictions. But this I know you would do, because such a blessing I knew you wished to obtain, besides I knew from what I've often heard you say that you wished to be entirely resigned to the will of our Father, completely given up into his control-- but I'll not dwell upon this now since I must write so concisely. Young you cannot be more happy in me than I in you, you cannot priseprize me more. I can but rejoice when I know that your perfect walk will constrain me to follow your footsteps, and that by your example, I will oftentimes be enabled to flee temptations when I might otherwise be too weak to escape the tempter. And then I expect so much from your counsel.


            I was very happy to hear that your meeting was progressing finely for if there is aught I wish to prosper 'tis the cause of our Saviour, and if there is any intelligence, gives me pleasure 'tis this. I do not doubt Young that God did reward your labours in the conversion of souls, and oh 'tis my prayer that you may ever be enabled thus to take up the your cross and work for the one to whom we owe so much but whom we can never pay. My Dear Young I would never be aught but an humble follower of Christ-- for truly there is no station so exalted as this but neither must I dwell upon this as I will stop ere I have commenced.

            I think you acted quite properly in confering with Professor S_ upon that subject you have so long guarded within your own breast-- save expressing yourself to me. I have not Oct 23 '56 thought a great deal upon that subject lately save I still entertain a lively hope of one day becoming a Me-- for I desire to be this above everything else if 'tis the will of my Father that one so unworthy should occupy so distinguished a post. Mr. Smith has bought a lot in Grantville and is now improving it for my sisters and I have decided to live with them next year as much as much as I dislike the place. I thought I had told you before but I presumed I forgot to do so. So Young you may change my Advocate, if you will, as soon as you please. You will please pardon any delay-- I've no apology to offer save that I've been very busily at w work, and when I would have written you several times I was interrupted and could not do so. Write me very early please for I am anxious to hear from you now.
 Yours ever faithful, 
    Mary Houston
