  Letter from Young John Allen to Dr. Thomas, November 19, 1866
 
       

    Copy  
    Shanghai ChinaNov 19th 1866
    My dear Dr. Thomas,
        In a letter to Dr. E H Myers dated August 28th 1866, I notified my intention to forward at an early date some relics and specimens of Chinese Art & Literature as a contribution to the Cabinet and Library of your College, to arrive before the Commencement in July 1867. Having, therefore in compliance with intention finished or rather cut short my collection for want of means to salvage it at present, I now hasten to forward you an inventory of the box I am about to dispatch for the clipper ship "Antelope" from here to N. York.
        For the Library
        Chinese books, upwards of one hundred volumes, including; 1st An immense Chinese Dictionary with deffinitionsdefinitions in French and Latin by M. D Guignes and published in 1813 by order of Napoleon Bonaparte-the first ever published, and worth from fifty to one hundred dollars at present. Note- Superceded at by Morrison's and Medhurst for general use by English Students. 2d The Chinese Classics with translation and notes also history and biography of their times and authors- by Dr. Legge-Hong Kong 3d Chinese Classics, native edition, foreign bound with commentaries- 4th Agricultural Enclopedia Encyclopedia (2 cases) A Novel 5th Hing Leu MengHong Lou Meng- or "Dream of the Red Chamber" 6th A number of Rebel books obtained from the Kan Wang (Shield King) in Nan Kin during my visit there in 1861 The Coroner's Handbook 8th The Sacred Edict- foreign bound. 9th The Li Ki or "Book of Rites. 10th Description of Shanghai and its Environs traslated from an ancient Chinese miscellany- Also various books translated into Chinese by the Missionaries 1st The Bible- 2 copies- one the London Mission Edition the other the Committee's ed. both in Wen Li a literary classic Style- also parts of the same in Mandarin and Shanghai Colloquials. 2d A comparison of Theology 3d The guide to Heaven 4th Introduction to the doctrines of Christianity 5th The two Friends 6th Arithmetic, Algebra, Geography &c 7th Numerous other books including various hymn gooks, catechisms, prayer books, ritual &c also a number of Romanized- i.e. the reading sound of Chinese characters represented by roman letters & syllables-Also A Japanese Dictionary One copy in a Burmandialect- One an Indian dialect One a hymn book in a modified form of the CoreanKorean character A number of pamphlets pertaining to the discussion of "terms" to be used for God in translating the Bible.
    & & &
    For the Cabinet 1st relics from the Porcelain Tower obtained during my recent visit to Nan Kin in September, including- One, out of the 1800 images of Buddha in bas relief that faced the entire inner surface of the Tower. 2d Relics from Tien hong fu or palace of the Rebel Emperor. Two fragments from a petrified (?) slab or pillar in a private court of the palace A fragment of a yellow (royal) tile from the palace roof-DoDitto from his private grotto " " " marble door sill A long green tile (perfect) from an Empress pavilion on the famous King Shan- Golden Island- near Chun Kiang fu, in the Yang tse river. A common brick and tile from Shanghai Some fine Specimens of lava from a partially active Volcano in the province of Yesso, in the extreme north of Japan. Some pebbles from famous Tsih-li-loong gorge or pass on the Tsien Tang Kiang, beyond Hang Chow in the Chi Kiang province, China Two or three pieces of carved Stone and jade one a seal such as are in common use- and one representing an ancient cash coin- used as a charm
    Sundries Idols-Tsai Shun - the god of wealth Kwan Ying - " The goddess of Mercy" or more the goddess of children or midwiferyKwan Ti A sort of devil god or destroyer these three are universally worshipped A buddhist priest reciting prayers and striking a hollow piece of wood, representing a fish's head- universal practice-Buttons- blue, red, grass and white facsimile of those worn in China- One official hat and button (cuff) crystal for first prize Sophomore Declamation 1867 if the Faculty approve the novel innovation on old custom- Two pairs Shoes- presented by Lieu nyang nyang, the wife of our late native preacher Lieu Tsih Sung One umbrella- bamboo and oil paper- One Opium pipe- lamp and feeder- Two other pipes- water and common with tobacco for each- also some Chinese Snuff- Flint and steel with paper matches- in merchandise The Abaceus Abacus or counting board- The gentleman's travelling case, containing chopsticks knife and toothpick- also several common chopsticks One small box of Sycee Spirit money- consumed for the benefit of the dead One do doditto dittoof dollars Spirit money-consumed for the benefit of the dead Two ancient coins and a string of the cash in present use-
    Also Six dozen rice or pith paper pictures- Four others of a large size Specimens of letters- paper- envelopes- bills- receipts &c Three Specimens of Ladies' head dresses- Scissors, thimble lock and key- comb- candles- wicks- Lamp wicks dominoes and cards- The Great Plan- or Diagram of the Record fourth division One carved bamboo cane for the Rev Dr E H Myers A Specimen of finest tea in China- Pih lu chunmee for the Faculty- Presented by the Provincial chancellor at Suchow-
    I exceedingly regret that my collection and contribution is so meager and unsatisfactory- and hope at no distant day to be able to make another of more interest and value- What it is and as it is however I forward you, hoping that in due time, say in April next, it will reach you in good order and condition-
        Affect. yours-Young J Allen
        
  
    
        
