

           Letter from Y. J. Allen to Mollie Houston, September 04, 1856

           
               
                   Emory College, Oxford Geo.
                   Sept 4 1856
               

            My Dear One, 
           

           I have gained a few minutes this evening, by hastening over my Philosophy, which I desire after some sort to spend in communion with thee. Two weeks ago, today, I wrote you a hasty letter, as this too must be, which I should have long since expected an answer to, had I not heard what I took to be a valid and I assure you a most acceptable excuse, though I must admit that I have been looking anxiously with a partial expectation, at least, of getting one every morning, for near 5 days now, not knowing how long that excuse (for it is a good one, and you are excusable most assuredly under all such circumstances) might still continue; I have now taken it for granted that you are still engaged both mentally and spiritually in that glorious work which seems to have sprung up near you and thereby given you such precious opportunities and privileges to work for your Redeemer's cause; My Dear, I did not wish hardly to mention this subject just here, but could not help it, but wished to wait until I should hear from your own heart and pen what has been done, then to give you some of my feelings as they come up in earnest emotions the morning I got the the news of your devotedness in zeal and active exertion for the cause you have espoused. I was glad, I was glad Dearest One, when I heard of the lively interest you had taken and publicly manifested in the meeting at Grantville, I so hope and pray that the Lord will greatly bless your efforts and give you greater courage and strength to labor in his vineyard, with increasing assurances of success, and of hope for the rewards of his promises. Dearest Mollie, I will not anticipate and say in this little hasty scribble what I desire to say at more length at another and better time, especially after I hear from you. I don't intend this to be considered as a letter, Mollie, at all, but just a fewlittle ramblings of the pen and mind a few minutes before going in to the lecture room. I have no news that would interest you anyway, I suppose, and shall therefore mention none, 'cepting (your word) I tell you that I heard from Dessa the other day. Two of our students, and I don't know how many more, live very near her and know her well. I heard of her swapping brothers with another young lady up there, the young man a student here of the Soph. class, with whom I suppose she enjoyed a sweet ride, as they exchanged for that purpose, Messrs. Peek and Blance are the two gentlemen and the latter the one she swapped for, I have told you this particularly that you may take advantage of the information in writing to her sometime if you desire.

          I must now close, begging that you pardon this almost unpardonable attempt at a communion, especially with.
          And I must request that you write me soon, and give me all the particulars and news &etc that have occurred since that I left. Do now, My Dear Mollie, please write me a long letter and I will repay you twofold in my next.

          Give my love to Mellie & sisters and believe me ever faithful and devotedly 

          
              thine own affectionate
              Young Allen
          
            Scold Matt for me, what did you think of Elsie? Please answer my ☞?
        