



[Letter from Young John Allen to Molly Houston, August 21st, 1856]
                
E. C. Oxford, Geo., Aug. 21st 1856
                    

My dearest Mollie,

After another happy meeting, and sweet-month of communion, and an other painful, yet resigned and dutiful separation, I find myself seated at this window of my study to perform again that most pleasureful task, and delightful duty, of corresponding with thee. I will not enter into the preliminaries common on such occasions as this, the first communication, as I do not intend as yet to write you a regular letter, but only to acquaint you that I had a pleasant trip and most cordial greeting on my arrival, and and was most pleasantly located at my former place. I need not detail all the incidents and feelings that transpired and excited me during the run from Grantville to Oxford, for I deem it all unnecessary and will pass them all over in silence therefore.

I found on arriving that I did not surprise any of them at least of my our family as they had been expecting me ever since Friday night. The Old Lady (Mrs. Talley) and the girls told me they were about going down to the depot a foot, about a mile, to meet me and gallant me home, but feared lest I should not come and they would be alone at the depot rather too late at night by themselves and give it out. But I assure you Mollie they greeted me with many smiles, kind words, and assurances that they were glad to see me; and before I entered the door all anxiously enquired where I saw Mollie and how she was yes all of which I gladly responded to. Be assured My Dear that I am happily situated now, I feel very cheerful hopeful and encouraged, and knowing, feeling that I have thy love to cheer, thy chaste and constant heart of virtue to repose confiding trust and hope in, and thy fervent prayers in my behalf to strengthen and sustain me, how otherwise than be cheerful and hopeful could I be, be happy and cheerful there too my dear, fervent, dilligent and punctual in the discharge of all your duties particularly your private and Christian devotions, and though we meet not for a few months, let's join our prayer and supplications jointly and unitedly morning and evening at a throne of grace, in behalf of each other and our very dear friends whom we so much desire to see partaking with us of the divine character and blessings that are ever ready to be bestowed upon the meek and lowly and faithful Christian.  My soul swells with rapturous joy at times when I contemplate the Christian's hopes, his prospects and his exceeding precious reward. May we ever live in God's presence.
                
                

Now back again Mollie to the news after a little deviation which (deviation) I will leave for you to trace on further for yourself as I have not time.Not many old students have returned as yet, but a quantity of new ones 29 new ones were admitted yesterday and most of them for our class which will swell it to about 60 there are several new ones that have arrived since and still they come. There are 6 returned here and 6 more are expected, then we will have 10 boarders all fine gentlemen.

Miss Lizzie Tally left us this morning to spend awhile in Greece. I sent our love jointly to the Madison Ladies with whom I enjoyed myself so much at Commencement.

                I have an idea of going over to Covington for tomorrow to call on my old bride? Miss Emma Oliphant, our old boarder (she has left us).

Now Dear, I believe I have told you the most that has happened or that's in any way entertaining to you and I must close. I heard from your dearest Tish yesterday, as Mr. Arnold, a student, got on the train with us there, just right from Charlie Arnold's where she now is, may God bless you both, and keep you both and save you both in the Heaven of his love forever.

Give my love Dearest Mollie to your Dear sisters, Mollie Bea, Mindie, Sweetie and Sallie, and accept the fulness of a devoted heart as thine own constantly and purely forever.

Young Allen

MissMollie Houston
Grantville
    Georgia

Mr. Peabody of Columbus, of my class who left here sick on the night of the 5th of July, is dead.

                Are you acquainted with a Mr. Honeycut of Coweta, now a student here?
"Thine own"

Mollie Dearest please answer this as soon as you can and I will try and write you a letter after a while, and talk lots with you.
    Good bye

      Young
            