
            
                [Letter from Arthur Allen to Young John Allen, October 15, 1883]
                Oct. 15 1883

                My Dear Papa,

I am going to school and am geting along very in my studies, I have altogether 7 studies a day. Mama has boardars this term and two of them are the old boys. I am now in the second year subfresh class. There are about 60 boys in my class and in the whole College. There are about 250 boys. I am now takeingtaking singing lessons. I went to school this summer to Mr. Carney and study Latin. I am still a little behind in Latin but in all the other studies I am up in. This summer I stayed in Oxford 2 months and the month I to Newnan to see AntAunt Monties a while and stayed 1 week there. I picked cotton for Uncle Sam one day and I picked 60 pounds for him the first time. He says that was pretty well for the first time, then I went to Lagrange and stayed for about 8 days. I stayed at Mr. Tuggles the first day and the rest of the time I stayed at the Female college for a wickweek and a good time with the girls. There was 30 girls and ownlyonly 1 boy to stays with there and I got sort of lounsomelonesome. This summer while I was at Uncle Sams I went a possum hunting with 2 of Uncles friends and Huse went with us also. We went about 2 miles from home then one of the dogs barked and one of the negroes said bob has treed one and we went to the tree he was in it was a great big Poplapoplar it happened to be a moonlight and we could see the possum very easy one of the negroes throughinthrowing lumps of dirt at him and hit him on the back and he hopedhopped out and the dog caught it. Give my love to my friends and tell them that I have not forgotten them yet, how are the old servants getting along with Mellie, I hope that my dog is still living yet does he still watch like he use to do. Give my love to AntAunt sweet and Uncle Fred. Ask AntAunt Sweet to write to me. Give my love to Mr. Loehr and Mr. Wrice.

 
Yours truly
    Arthur Allen
        